AsyncAPI, a tool in our toolbox (#278)
mauroservienti/milestone.github.io: _posts/asyncapi-tool-in-our-toolbox.md

---
layout: post
author: Mauro Servienti

> title: "AsyncAPI, a tool in our toolbox"

Reviewer: Could be more descriptive in the title about what AsyncAPI does

## Services share schema and contract, not class

What publishers share with subscribers using NuGet packages, for example, are schemas and contracts. By chance, we respect the SOA third tenet using C# classes or interfaces to define the mentioned contracts. However, despite being indeed comfortable, that's not a requirement.

[AsyncAPI](https://www.asyncapi.com) is a protocol-agnostic specification designed to describe asynchronous APIs:

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.2.0
info:
  title: Account Service
  version: 1.0.0
  description: This service is in charge of processing user signups
channels:
  user/signedup:
    subscribe:
      message:
        $ref:'#/components/messages/UserSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    UserSignedUp:
      payload:
        type: object
        properties:
          displayName:
            type: string
            description: Name of the user
          email:
            type: string
            format: email
            description: Email of the user
```

(from AsyncAPI's samples)

> The presented YAML document describes the `UserSignedUp` event much better than what a NuGet package with a C# class and accompanying documentation can do. If not only, for the simple fact that everything is in the same place, the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The presented YAML document describes the `UserSignedUp` event much better than what a NuGet package with a C# class and accompanying documentation can do, if only for the simple fact that everything is in the same document.
```

The second interesting aspect of the AsyncAPI specification is the community-driven set of generators. For example, there is a [template to generate C# code from an AsyncAPI YAML document](https://github.com/jonaslagoni/asyncapi-quicktype-template). There are also generators to output HTML documents for a documentation website.

> The fact that all information is in a single place, the YAML document, and that there are generators available makes it so that teams can share AsyncAPI specs documents instead of C# compiled artifacts. Once consumers and producers reference the YAML files, they can apply the templates to transform them into C# classes or interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fact that all information is in a single place, the YAML document, and that there are generators available allows teams to share AsyncAPI specs documents instead of C# compiled artifacts. Once consumers and producers reference the YAML files, they can apply the templates to transform them into C# classes or interfaces.

```

The advantage of this approach is that it entirely removes platform coupling from the equation. The system can be polyglot. Each endpoint can be coded using the platform and the language of choice.

## Conclusion

> In many cases, we're sharing NuGet packages and .NET assemblies when we need to share message contracts because that's the simplest thing we can do. Not to mention that it's also a scenario well supported by the toolchain in use, for example, Visual Studio or JetBrains Rider. There are scenarios in which the limitations imposed by the generated platform coupling are a blocker. AsyncAPI might come to the rescue and save our day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In many cases, we're sharing NuGet packages and .NET assemblies when we need to share message contracts because that's the simplest thing we can do. Not to mention that it's also a scenario well supported by the toolchain in use, for example, Visual Studio or JetBrains Rider. There are scenarios in which the limitations imposed by the generated platform coupling are a blocker. AsyncAPI might come to the rescue and save the day.

```

---
layout: post
author: Mauro Servienti

> title: "AsyncAPI, a tool in our toolbox"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "AsyncAPI, a specification for defining asynchronous APIs"
```

header_image: 
synopsis: "Distributed systems governance is a hot topic. At first, it might feel overwhelming. It's important to understand what we need to govern and which tools can help."

header_image: /img/posts/asyncapi-tool-in-our-toolbox/header.jpg 
tags:
- distributed-systems
- soa
---

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Distributed systems architecture works well for large and complex systems with many moving parts. In such a scenario, it's crucial to define processes and identify tools to help govern all the resources, assets, people, and infrastructure required to run and maintain the system.

```

All that is not to say there is no need for governance for events that live within a service boundary. It is expected that the team owning the service has full knowledge and control over those events, leading to less need for formal widely-accepted governance.

On the other hand, events that cross service boundaries are critical. They are owned by a service team and consumed by several other teams and services. In such a situation, governance is crucial, primarily from the consumer's perspective.

In the .NET ecosystem, the de facto standard is NuGet. A publisher defines its events in a .NET project shared as a NuGet package. Usually, the project is named something like "MyServices.Messages.Events", or a variation of that, making it simple for subscribers to find message packages by searching for `*messages*`.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

A NuGet package alone might not be enough. We could be in a situation where some documentation detailing the reasons for the events or their business meaning might still be something teams need. A documentation repository thus becomes an essential governance part.

Publishers can also decide to follow [Semantic Versioning (SemVer)](https://semver.org) to help packages users understand a contract's evolution.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Sharing contracts as NuGet packages containing .NET assemblies comes with a downside, though. It creates platform coupling. Subscribers need to be .NET projects to reference a .NET assembly.

Author: ```suggestion
Sharing contracts as NuGet packages containing .NET assemblies comes with a downside, though. It creates platform coupling. Subscribers need to be .NET projects to reference a .NET assembly.

> Platform coupling is the type of coupling generated by using a protocol or technology only available on a single platform.
```

What if one endpoint uses NServiceBus, and another Ruby or Python? [NServiceBus supports cross-platform integration via native message processing](https://particular.net/blog/cross-platform-integration-with-nservicebus-native-message-processing). However, we still need to share contracts in some way. And as I said, sharing a .NET assembly between Ruby, or Python, and .NET is not an option.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

This is when AsyncAPI comes into play.

```
